​1​
​Uncertain times call​
 ​for an open mindset​




                                                                                    ​PHOTO: CANVA​


 ​By Serene Luo​
​ST Schools editor​


​Singapore’s story of development sounds almost like a fairytale. We went from “third-world to​
 ​first” in around 50 years.​

​Most of us, including your parents, have grown up in a Singapore of relative peace and​
 ​prosperity over the past 30 to 40 years. The streets are safe, most people are gainfully​
  ​employed, salaries have risen over the years, and many families own their own homes, can​
   ​travel, and can afford small luxuries.​

​Our World In Data reported in 2025 that Singapore’s gross domestic product per capita — a​
 ​measure of average income — rose from some US$3,460 in 1960 to US$80,600 in 2022. This​
  ​amount is now nearly twice as much as the GDP per capita in Western Europe, which is​
   ​US$41,300.​


                                                                                                  ​2​
​This also means that most Singaporeans have not lived in an environment where we were on​
 ​the backfoot or facing turmoil, like during World War II and the post-war, early-Independence​
  ​years.​

​Things could be about to change. At the moment, “uncertainty is the defining theme of the​
 ​global risks outlook in 2026”, and “stability is under siege”, wrote the World Economic Forum​
  ​(WEF).​

​In the WEF’s Global Risks Perception Survey 2026, “geoeconomic confrontation” was selected​
 ​by respondents as the top risk. What that means is that countries are pulling back from working​
  ​with one another, instead opting for more protectionism – putting themselves first.​

​In second spot was “state-based armed conflicts”. We see this in the Russian invasion of Ukraine,​
 ​which has been dragging on since 2022, the current Iran war in the Middle East and, closer to​
  ​home, in border skirmishes between Thailand and Cambodia.​

​The other risks that rounded up the top five in the survey were “adverse weather events”,​
 ​“societal polarisation”, and “misinformation and disinformation”.​

​Staying resilient in an uncertain environment​
​It is sure to be a confusing, and worrying time for Singaporeans. For one thing, companies and​
 ​businesses here may be exposed to a lot more risk, and could find their overseas partnerships​
  ​crumbling.​

​For employees, especially those who work for multinational companies or hope to work​
 ​overseas, job opportunities may become rarer as governments discourage the hiring foreigners​
  ​and companies prioritise workers from their own home countries.​

​In the education space, Singaporeans who hope to study aboard might be hit by tightened and​
 ​stricter immigration laws. This is already happening in American universities such as Harvard and​
  ​MIT.​

​Singapore is trying to find its footing in this uncertain environment.​

​As announced in the Budget speech in February, Prime Minister Lawrence Wong is banking big​
 ​on Singapore becoming an early adopter of artificial intelligence to supercharge our industries​
  ​and workforce. He also called for companies to look for new opportunities and partners​
   ​overseas, including in Latin America and Africa.​

​On a day-to-day basis, we as citizens can too shift our perspectives and be more open-minded​
 ​so we can be resilient to setbacks. For instance, if your families’ favourite brands of groceries​
                                                                                                     ​3​
​become more expensive due to trade wars or supply chain shocks caused by conflicts, can you​
 ​accept different ones even if they taste or look different? And should you lose a study​
  ​opportunity, are you able to take on the challenge of finding alternative academic paths?​

​It will not be easy, but take heart. Singapore has come a long way and is well-positioned to ride​
 ​out these uneasy times.​

​Our grandparents and great-grandparents showed that they had the mettle to bring our country​
 ​into the 21st century. Now it is up to us to learn to thrive, and continue being exceptional.​




                                                                                                  ​4​
​Immersed in the spirit​
 ​of friendly competition​
​DILLON LOH asks three young national athletes what they have learnt after experiencing​
 ​other cultures and meeting people during their stints overseas.​




​While representing Singapore overseas, Paralympic shooter Shannon Heng Zhu Ni, water polo player Sanjiv Rajandra and silat​
 ​player Dhani Andika Razali have learnt more about the cultures of the countries they visited. PHOTOS: COURTESY OF​
  ​SHANNON HENG ZHU NI, SINGAPORE AQUATICS AND BRYAN FOO​


   ​Making meaningful personal connections​
​National Paralympic shooter Heng Zhu Ni Shannon’s sporting career has taken her around the​
 ​world. The 24-year-old has particularly fond memories of Thailand – a country that she has​
  ​been to multiple times for competitions.​

​“The people there are so warm and friendly,” she said. “Whenever we go there to compete, the​
 ​Thai athletes always give us gifts like elephant pants or pouches.”​

​Most recently, Ms Heng was in Thailand to compete in the 2025 ASEAN Para Games. On the​
 ​last day of her trip there, she had an unforgettable interaction with a fellow shooter. She​
  ​recalled: “The morning we left, a Thai athlete came up to me to pass me her (national team)​
   ​jacket and used Google Translate to ask if she could have my Singapore jacket.​

                                                                                                                               ​5​
​“We had already packed up so I couldn’t (give mine) to her there, but we exchanged contact​
 ​details and I’m currently trying to mail it to her.”​

​Ms Heng has also been to South Korea to compete. She said: “I had been exposed to Korean​
 ​culture through media like K-pop and K-variety, which tends to have a younger audience, so (the​
  ​country) was a little different than what I thought.”​

​She recalled that she and her teammates would frequently visit a store that sold gimbap, a​
 ​grab-and-go meal of rice and fillings rolled in dried seaweed. By the end of the trip, the store’s​
  ​owner recognised her team and their orders. She said: “I think what helped was that we tried to​
   ​use our very limited Korean to order, and that made the owner very happy. Being open-minded​
    ​can go a long way.”​

​Experiencing a new sporting mindset​
 ​Although national water polo player Sanjiv Rajandra has an intense sporting schedule that​
  ​includes overseas travel 10 to 11 times a year for training and competitions, the 24-year-old said​
   ​that he does not always have time to fully get to know the cultures of the countries that he​
    ​visits.​

​Mr Rajandra has, however, learnt much from his international rivals. He said: “The drive and​
 ​passion for the game is a constant everywhere you go.”​

​He pointed to his training trip in Montenegro as a particularly inspiring example of another​
 ​country’s athletes striving for sporting excellence. He said: “Montenegro are a top five team in​
  ​the world, so you would expect them to have the best facilities and equipment. But when we​
   ​arrived there, their stuff was so normal.​

​“It's their attitudes that make a difference. When we were there, we saw kids as young as 10​
 ​years old pushing (themselves) during training.”​

​Another particularly memorable experience for Mr Rajandra took place at the World Uni Games​
 ​in China in 2023. He said: “My lanyard was decked out in flags and pins by the end of the event​
  ​– I must have collected like 20 to 30 different country pins.​

​“Being able to share the same living space with athletes from all over the world, it was a​
 ​once-in-a lifetime experience.”​

​Discovering common ground​
 ​National silat player Dhani Andika Razali travels abroad every few months to compete.​


                                                                                                      ​6​
​The 21-year-old said that his travel experiences have taught him more about Singapore’s​
 ​regional neighbours.​

​He said: “I always thought that the culture of Malaysia and Indonesia would be more similar to​
 ​the Malay community in Singapore's, but they are more different than I thought”​

​Mr Dhani recalled that he was surprised the first time he saw kuda lumping – a traditional​
 ​Javanese dance where dancers “ride” woven bamboo horses – in Bali. “I was quite shocked​
  ​because I’ve never seen that before,” he said. “It’s not really celebrated widely in Singapore or​
   ​Malaysia.”​

​Being a fan of Indonesian ballads and indie bands, Mr Dhani has been able to bond with his​
 ​Indonesian competitors over their shared love of the same music. “Even people in my close​
  ​circle in Singapore don’t really listen to that kind of music,” he said. “It’s really nice to be able to​
   ​talk to the people I train and compete with about our common interests.”​




                                                                                                               ​7​
​breaking bread Brings​
 ​different communities​
  ​together​
​The Makan with Migrant Workers initiative gives local volunteers a chance to get to know​
 ​migrant workers in Singapore. DILLON LOH finds out how sharing a meal can bring the​
  ​local and migrant worker communities together.​




​The dinner at Kafe Utu for eight workers was sponsored by Canadian restaurateur Kurt Wagner. It was his third time reaching out​
 ​through the Makan with Migrant Workers initiative. ST PHOTO: ARIFFIN JAMAR​


​On a Saturday evening in February, the joyous laughter and spirited conversation of a group of​
 ​men from all over the world echoed off the walls of African-themed restaurant Kafe Utu as they​
  ​mingled over hearty stews, fragrant meats and ice-cold drinks.​

​The friendly encounter was made possible by volunteers taking part in the Makan with Migrant​
 ​Workers initiative. Organised by migrant worker-focused charity Its Raining Raincoats, the​
  ​initiative enables the members of the local community to bond on a personal level with migrant​
   ​workers over meals at home or at restaurants. Some 750 workers have had home-cooked food​
    ​or dined out with new friends since it first began in April 2022.​




                                                                                                                                ​8​
​The dinner at Kafe Utu for eight workers was sponsored by Canadian restaurateur Kurt Wagner.​
 ​It was his third time reaching out through the initiative, which he first came across via social​
  ​media. Such sessions are organised on an ad-hoc basis when donors contact the charity.​

​“Some of the best memories I have are of eating out with my friends and family,” said the​
 ​54-year-old, who owns Kafe Utu and has been living in Singapore for eight years. “These guys​
  ​don’t often have a chance to eat out, and they should have a chance to enjoy something that we​
   ​all enjoy.”​

​Besides Mr Wagner, the workers were also joined at dinner by his brother and a close friend. Mr​
 ​Wagner’s wife and two children – a 13-year-old daughter and six-year-old son – had joined him​
  ​at previous Makan with Migrant Workers dinners.​

​He said: “I think it’s important that my children see their parents hosting this. It’s important they​
 ​learn that, as human beings, we are all equal and deserving of blessings.”​

​Mr Wagner's involvement in the programme was inspired by his experience watching his father​
 ​work for developmental non-governmental organisations in Africa. He said: “Growing up, I​
  ​watched my father treat presidents and parking lot security with the same respect. I want to be​
   ​that kind of role model for my children.”​

​While the dinner at Kafe Utu initially began quietly, chatter soon filled the air as the ice was​
 ​broken over a selection of traditional East African dishes.​

​“It’s my first time trying (African food), but the coconut rice reminds me of the rice they serve in​
 ​Kerala,” said Mr Muthu Krishnan, 31, who was participating in a Makan with Migrant Workers​
  ​dinner for the first time.​

​“I’m happy that I can learn about other people, and that there are people who also want to learn​
 ​more about me.”​

​Mr Krishnan, who has been working in Singapore for 13 years, was surprised that the event was​
 ​hosted at a restaurant, and that Mr Wagner and his friends had joined them for dinner.​

​The worker said: “Even though we didn’t know one another, we were all talking and eating​
 ​together. Next time, I definitely want to come back.”​

​Other workers, some of whom work in land reclamation and transport infrastructure, were also​
 ​thrilled at the opportunity to meet new people at the dinner. Mr Puyalraj, who goes by one​
  ​name, said: “Being here with new friends and my different countrymen makes me very happy.”​


                                                                                                      ​9​
​Mr Wagner said that he benefits from the programme as much as the workers. He said: “As a​
 ​restaurateur, it makes me happy when my guests enjoy my food and my space – these guys​
  ​always do!”​

​Moving forward, Mr Wagner hopes to host Makan with Migrant Workers dinners monthly,​
 ​rotating where the meal is hosted among the different restaurants that he owns.​

​He believes that initiatives like this help strengthen Singaporean society. He said: “Singapore is a​
 ​beautiful mix of race, religion and ethnicities, but I feel like the migrant worker community can​
  ​be a little siloed off.​

​“They contribute to so many facets of our society – I think it’s valuable to get to know them.”​

​Interested in the Makan with Migrant Workers programme? Get involved with the initiative at:​
 ​https://sites.google.com/view/irrmakan-with-migrant-workers/for-volunteers-and-donors​




                                                                                                    ​10​
​Taking home fresh views​
 ​on other cultures​
​ANG YIYING spoke to St Nicholas Girls’ School and Queensway Secondary School​
 ​students about what they learnt about new cultures through the first-hand experiences​
  ​provided by their schools.​




                            ​PHOTOS: ST NICHOLAS GIRLS’ SCHOOL, QUEENSWAY SECONDARY SCHOOL, CANVA​


​At St Nicholas Girls’ School (SNGS), students in the Bicultural Studies Programme learn more​
 ​about China-related topics during their Chinese lessons, such as its history and developments,​
  ​and also get to go on trips overseas – to China, other South-east Asian destinations and even​
   ​countries in the west.​

​The four-year programme spans from Secondary 3 to JC 2 (or equivalent levels) and at the​
 ​secondary level is offered in seven schools. Among other objectives, it aims to cultivate an​
  ​understanding of international issues involving China, the West and South-east Asia, through a​
   ​Singaporean perspective.​

​For three SNGS students – Yeo Chen Xi, Zong Keren and Chiam Rui Tong Isabelle, all 16 – taking​
 ​part in the programme was a way for them to explore other cultures and broaden their horizons.​
                                                                                              ​11​
​As part of the programme, the trio got to visit China.​
 ​Chen Xi visited Shanghai, while Keren and Isabelle​
  ​went to Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Hong Kong,​
   ​which are part of China’s Greater Bay Area.​
    ​Additionally, Keren also visited Vietnam under the​
     ​programme.​

​Over at Queensway Secondary School (QSS), Sec 3​
 ​students get the opportunity to go overseas under​
  ​the Trip for Internationalisation Experience (TIE)​
   ​programme, as well as a leadership programme.​
    ​Trips for the year, which could be to cities in​
     ​South-east Asia, China or India, are announced in​
      ​the first term of the year, and students can apply for​
       ​them by submitting a video clip that describes their​
        ​interest in a trip.​

​To ensure more students have opportunities to go on a trip, each student can go on just one.​
 ​About half of the students in a cohort would experience these trips, said the school’s TIE​
  ​coordinator and subject head of character and citizenship education Robin Tham.​

​IN spoke to four 15-year-old QSS students – Tan​
 ​Rui Yi, Nur Shahidah A Azuddin, Zhu Yaorui and​
  ​Raj Karis Rina – who went took part in the TIE​
   ​programme in 2025. Rui Yi went to Saraburi,​
    ​Thailand, under the NUS College of Alice and​
     ​Peter Tan Student Leadership Action Mentorship​
      ​programme; Shahidah went to Sabah, Malaysia;​
       ​Yaorui visited Hanoi, Vietnam; and Karis visited​
        ​China’s Shanghai and Suzhou.​

​Here is what the students had to say about their​
 ​experiences.​

​Experiencing China​
​Students who went to China said they were aware that the country was technologically​
 ​advanced, but they were still impressed by the technology used in the attractions and​
  ​companies they visited there.​



                                                                                                 ​12​
​All three SNGS students cited examples of visualisation tools used in Chinese classrooms. These​
 ​included tools that helped to visualise shapes for maths lessons and tools that explained poems​
  ​line by line.​

​SNGS’ Isabelle was particularly wowed by Guangdong Eternal Love, a show she watched in​
 ​Foshan that introduced the history of the area and had martial arts scenes. “I find it really​
  ​amazing how China intelligently utilised the 3D technology and also the 5D effects to simulate​
   ​the rain and the water. It shows how they utilise advancements in technology to preserve (a​
    ​record of) their culture to ensure that it reaches the younger audiences, and to make it more​
     ​appealing to them.”​

​She added: “I think this is one (approach) that we can also really look towards in Singapore to​
 ​help continue our cultural preservation.”​

​For SNGS’ Chen Xi one of the highlights was visiting the Baidu Apollo Park, an autonomous​
 ​driving development and testing base in Shanghai. “We learnt about the newest technologies​
  ​and even had the opportunity to sit in a driverless car… I was really in awe and amazed the​
   ​whole time.”​

​Their visit to China was also a way of applying the “cultural intelligence” they were taught in​
 ​school. For instance Chen Xi said: “Most of our meals, we used chopsticks so I think it’s important​
  ​to use chopsticks correctly. It’s a very important part of Chinese culture and you must not​
   ​disrespect their culture.” Sticking chopsticks into a bowl of rice would be a cultural taboo, for​
    ​instance, as it resembles offerings for the dead.​

​Using chopsticks was initially a bit of a struggle for QSS’ Karis, who is non-Chinese, but she felt​
 ​that she adjusted and got better as time went on.​

​An additional barrier she encountered on her trip was that she did not know Mandarin. However,​
 ​she attempted to pick up some simple phrases from her friends, as well as through Google​
  ​Translate, before she went. “Maybe, if I bumped into a stranger I can be like ‘dui bu qi’,” she said,​
   ​using the Chinese term for “sorry”.​

​While she used Google Translate sometimes, she also met Chinese students who spoke English​
 ​well. “I thought the language barrier would prevent me from being able to converse with them.​
  ​But it was actually quite easy to talk with them.”​

​Like the students in SNGS, she too had a first-hand experience of China’s high-tech capabilities.​
 ​During her trip, she and her schoolmates visited tech giant Alibaba. Her tour involved using a​
  ​real-time translating app by the company. “So, it was easy for me to be able to understand what​


                                                                                                      ​13​
​the (company representative) was talking about. I also learnt about how they incorporate​
 ​technology, especially in Hema (Freshippo).”​

​Hema is Alibaba’s chain of high-tech supermarkets where customers can shop in-store using an​
 ​app for looking up information on product. Their purchases can also be delivered to their homes​
  ​within a short amount of time.​

​Learning more about South-east Asia​
​Students who went to South-east Asia said they learnt more about the culture of the countries​
 ​and also saw first-hand how developed some of the cities were.​

​For SNGS’ Keren, who visited Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam, said: “At the city areas, you can see it's very​
 ​similar to Singapore. Around our hotel, it kind of looked like Raffles Place, actually.”​

​On QSS’ Yaorui trip to Hanoi, she observed that Vietnam’s capital has a thriving business scene.​
 ​During a visit an IT company, she got to see many products it developed, including a device​
  ​management system similar to what is used in personal learning devices here to manage screen​
   ​time and security.​

​Other destinations had provided experiences in environment and nature.​

​QSS’ Rui Yi, whose leadership trip to Saraburi, Thailand, had an additional focus on​
 ​sustainability, said: “(Chulalongkorn University’s Centre for Learning and Research in Natural​
  ​Resources) put a lot of effort into making sure that Thailand can fight against climate change,​
   ​and the government also works with farmers on reforestation.”​

​When communicating with the people in Thailand, she and her schoolmates observed Thai​
 ​culture by pressing their palms together and giving a slight bow when greeting others. They​
  ​learnt to do this during a pre-trip briefing.​

​QSS’ Shahidah chose to visit Sabah as she felt it would be different from Peninsular Malaysia,​
 ​which she knew more about. It was her first time on a plane. She saw the nature and​
  ​ecosystems in Sabah and experienced planting saplings in a mangrove, as well as harvesting​
   ​spring onions, which were used as part of their meals, among other things.​



​Making friends​
​Participants said they learnt more about schooling culture in other cultures and also how to​
 ​communicate with their new friends.​



                                                                                                      ​14​
​Said SNGS’ Isabelle of visiting an international school in Hong Kong: “We found out that they​
 ​use Cantonese in lessons and it was quite a shock for us because most of us, we don't know​
  ​dialect.”​

​She and Keren were impressed that the students in Hong Kong were multilingual and could​
 ​speak Cantonese, Mandarin and English.​

​QSS’ Rui Yi, whose trip to Saraburi, Thailand, included a cooking experience with Thai university​
 ​and Thai high school students, said that they learnt to overcome the language barrier during the​
  ​activity.​

​“We had to come up with ways where we could effectively convey the instructions that we​
 ​wanted to give in English so that the Thai students could understand us more easily so we could​
  ​work together. We used simple English or hand actions to demonstrate the steps (can),” she said.​

​Still, across the different countries and cultures, the students found similarities, such as the use​
 ​of social media or common interests.​

​Said SNGS’ Keren: “We will also sometimes like or comment on each other's posts or status on​
 ​Weibo and WeChat. On WeChat, we even start longer conversations and about school life,​
  ​studies, and current affairs.”​

​Another bonus of making friends overseas is that when she now needs to do research for her​
 ​Bicultural Studies Programme and needs insights from China, she is able to reach out to her​
  ​friends to get first-hand perspectives.​

​Another common point that transcends countries: youth culture, including the K-wave.​

​In fact, QSS’ Yaorui met up with a Vietnamese student she met on the trip when she came to​
 ​Singapore for K-pop group Blackpink’s concert in end-2025.​

​Karis, who continued to communicate with her China friends on the WeChat app after her trip,​
 ​also realised they were into K-pop groups such as Aespa and has learnt more about K-pop to​
  ​converse with them.​

​Said SNGS’ Keren: “I think the similar vibe is that no matter which country we go, we always end​
 ​up talking about the trends, the food, the idols, the culture, and current affairs on social media.”​




                                                                                                     ​15​
​Ask around: What do people​
 ​from other countries think​
  ​about Singaporeans?​
​CHOO YING ERN and DILLON LOH approach various people – from short-term visitors​
 ​to locals – to find out what Singaporean characteristics stick out in their minds.​




                                                                           ​PHOTO: CANVA​


​Check out the video here: https://str.sg/gjqe​




                                                                                      ​16​
​Cooperating to tackle​
 ​cross-border issues​
​One of Singapore’s strengths is how we have embraced the spirit of international​
 ​cooperation. IN looks at three multilateral efforts that help our country tackle​
  ​cross-border crime, national defence and global pollution.​




​In January 2026, a landmark deal to protect the marine life of two-thirds of the ocean, known as the United Nations High Seas​
 ​Treaty, came into force. Singapore is among the 80-plus nations that have stepped up to play its part to help restore order to the​
  ​high seas under the treaty. PHOTO: CANVA​


 ​In this interconnected world, scam calls can come from another country, a security threat might​
  ​involve multiple nations, and plastic in the ocean drifts thousands of kilometres before washing​
​up on shores halfway around the world.​

​Problems do not stop at borders so countries working together to tackle such global challenges​
 ​is not just smart – it is essential. When nations share knowledge, coordinate policies and act​
  ​together, they can address challenges far more effectively than they could on their own.​

​Singapore, despite its small size, has been stepping up as a global player, working with other​
 ​countries and international organisations to tackle issues that affect the country, region and​
  ​beyond.​

                                                                                                                                        ​17​
​Here is a look at three major issues and how they are being tackled through multilateral​
 ​cooperation.​

​Fighting scams across Asia​

​Online scams and digital fraud are causing major headaches across South-east Asia. A 2025​
 ​report by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime stated that, despite high-profile​
  ​crackdowns, Asian crime networks are continuing to evolve and expand their multibillion-dollar​
   ​cyberscam industry.​

​In response, the region has stepped up its anti-scam efforts through several ASEAN-led​
 ​initiatives, including:​

   ​●​ ​the ASEAN Guide on Anti-Scam Policies and Best Practices, which assesses anti-scam​
         ​initiatives implemented across ASEAN member states and recommends measures that​
          ​they can adopt domestically and in collaboration with one another; and​
    ​●​ ​the ASEAN Working Group on Anti-Online Scams, which strengthens the ways ASEAN​
           ​member states can combat scams across digital and telecommunication channels.​

​Singapore has taken a leading role in these regional efforts. In January 2026, Singapore​
 ​proposed the region’s first mechanism that allows countries in the 11-member ASEAN to trace​
  ​the origin of a scam call or SMS.​

​Minister for Digital Development and Information Josephine Teo said that having such a​
 ​traceback mechanism will allow South-east Asian countries to better tackle scams at the point​
  ​they originate, even as scammers attempt to hide behind spoofed numbers or across multiple​
   ​networks.​

​Mrs Teo said: “This traceback mechanism that we have proposed requires international​
 ​cooperation, because it clearly doesn’t concern only the networks in Singapore. It concerns​
  ​networks in other jurisdictions.”​

​Such mechanisms work by following a suspicious call or message backwards through multiple​
 ​telecommunications networks using call detail records, or data logs containing information such​
  ​as the routing path and network identifiers.​

​Singapore will follow up with other ASEAN member states on the proposal to gauge their​
 ​reactions, Mrs Teo said on Jan 16, after the sixth ASEAN Digital Ministers’ Meeting in Hanoi,​
  ​V ietnam. She added that Singapore would be keen to share information if a scam text or call​
   ​originates from the Republic, and hoped its regional counterparts can reciprocate.​


                                                                                                   ​18​
​A scam compound located at the border of Thailand and Cambodia was found to have multiple video sets, including one that​
 ​imitated a Singapore police station. PHOTO: REUTERS​



​Strengthening defence and security cooperation​

​Security in South-east Asia involves more than just national defence – it is also often about​
 ​trust, communication and preparedness.​

​Ongoing territorial disputes, cyberthreats and maritime security issues mean that countries must​
 ​communicate constantly to prevent misunderstandings and build confidence.​

​Singapore has positioned itself as a hub for such multilateral engagement. One of the most​
 ​visible examples is the Shangri-La Dialogue, an annual summit hosted in Singapore that brings​
  ​together defence ministers, military leaders, and security experts from across Asia and beyond.​
   ​It provides a neutral space for countries to discuss sensitive issues, exchange perspectives, and​
    ​seek collaborative solutions to emerging threats.​

​Beyond dialogue, Singapore also maintains strategic partnerships with other countries. These​
 ​involve intelligence sharing and defence planning, as well as collaborative research and​
  ​development of new technologies in areas including cybersecurity systems and naval​
   ​capabilities.​


                                                                                                                             ​19​
​For example, in November 2025, Singapore and South Korea upgraded their bilateral ties and​
 ​agreed to work more closely in areas such as trade, sustainability and defence technology. This​
  ​strategic partnership has eight agreements, including a pact to establish a green and digital​
   ​shipping corridor where the two nations will collaborate to support the maritime sector’s​
    ​transition to zero or near-zero greenhouse gas emission fuels and accelerate digitalisation.​

​Singapore also participates in multilateral military exercises, which allow armed forces from​
 ​different nations to train together, ensuring that countries can act collectively in emergencies.​
  ​In September 2025, a contingent of troops from the Singapore Armed Forces took part in a​
   ​multilateral exercise in Indonesia.​

​It was one of 13 countries that participated in Exercise Super Garuda Shield, which was​
 ​co-hosted by the Indonesian National Defence Forces and United States Indo-Pacific​
  ​Command.​

​Addressing ocean pollution​

​The “high seas” refer to the vast waters that lie outside any single country’s jurisdiction. These​
 ​waters make up nearly half the planet, and hold huge importance to the health of the planet as​
  ​they house rich biodiversity and natural resources.​

​Until recently, there was no strong global system or comprehensive framework to safeguard​
 ​these waters. But in January 2026, a landmark deal to protect the marine life of two-thirds of​
  ​the ocean, known as the United Nations High Seas Treaty, came into force.​

​As a major port city and maritime hub, Singapore has a vested interest in maintaining healthy​
 ​seas. And it is among the 80-plus nations that have stepped up to play its part to help restore​
  ​order to the high seas under the treaty, formally called the Biodiversity Beyond National​
   ​Jurisdiction agreement.​

​The Ministry of Foreign Affairs told The Straits Times that the Republic is reviewing its laws,​
 ​regulatory frameworks and mechanisms to fulfil its obligations under the treaty.​

​The treaty has four main pillars that signatory countries must adhere to. It:​
    ​●​ ​establishes rules for the fair sharing of benefits from marine genetic resources;​
     ​●​ ​enables the creation of marine protected areas in the high seas;​
      ​●​ ​requires environmental impact assessments before potentially harmful activities are​
           ​carried out; and​
       ​●​ ​promotes capacity building and technology transfer to support developing countries.​



                                                                                                    ​20​
​At the regional level, Singapore also works closely with ASEAN on the Regional Action Plan for​
 ​Combating Marine Debris.​

​The plan is a coordinated effort to reduce plastic waste in South-east Asian waters by having​
 ​guidelines for countries to phase out single-use plastics, harmonising regional policies on​
  ​recycling and plastic packaging standards, and better monitoring of marine debris in the region.​

​Sources: The Straits Times, asean.org, ASEAN Foundation​




                                                                                                  ​21​
​How Singapore spreads​
 ​its wings overseas​
​You may have seen reports about the interactions and agreements between Singapore​
 ​and other countries in the news. To get all these done, the nation has many​
  ​representatives that work hard behind the scenes. Here is a snapshot of what they do.​




                                                                ​ILLUSTRATIONS: CANVA, ALAN BAY​




                                                                                            ​22​
​23​
​By JJ Quek​




               ​24​
​Global partnerships that​
 ​strengthen ties​
​DEBRA ANN FRANCISCO provides a current affairs update on diplomatic efforts that​
 ​strengthen Singapore’s ties and benefit the countries it partners with.​




​President Tharman and President of the Senate Laura Itzel Castillo Juarez at a meeting at the Mexican Senate in Mexico City on​
 ​Dec 1. ST PHOTO: MARK CHEONG​


​In today’s uncertain world, having strong and reliable partnerships with other countries is very​
 ​important. They are especially useful for smaller countries facing pressure from bigger nations.​

​When countries make agreements, they are more than just formalities. They can help make​
 ​food supply chains more secure, grow economies, improve healthcare networks, and keep a​
  ​region stable. All of these benefit a country’s long-term stability and growth.​

​Singapore–Thailand agreements in 2025​

​Singapore and Thailand signed pacts to expand the sale of rice to the Republic, and to deepen​
 ​cooperation in healthcare capabilities to meet the needs of their ageing societies in November​
  ​2025.​


                                                                                                                              ​25​
​The two memorandums of understanding (MOUs) were signed during Thai Prime Minister​
 ​Anutin Charnvirakul’s first official visit to Singapore since taking office in September 2025. It was​
  ​also Mr Anutin’s first official overseas visit as prime minister. An MOU is an agreement that​
   ​outlines a non-binding partnership by stipulating intent and commitment between partners.​

​The agreements were the latest in a series of initiatives launched in 2025, as the two close​
 ​neighbours marked six decades of diplomatic relations.​

​At a joint press conference, Prime Minister Lawrence Wong said Singapore and Thailand have​
 ​built deep ties over 60 years based on trust and mutual respect. He noted that economic and​
  ​defence cooperation remains strong, with close people-to-people links, but added that there is​
   ​scope to deepen collaboration further.​

​At the press conference, Mr Anutin noted expanding cooperation across sectors. He highlighted​
 ​an August carbon credits implementation deal, which is Singapore’s first with an Asean country,​
  ​and reaffirmed support for the next phase of the Lao-Thailand-Malaysia-Singapore Power​
   ​Integration Project, as well as broader renewable energy efforts. Both countries are also stepping​
    ​up cooperation against scams and cybercrime following a May pact.​

​Impact of the MOUs​

   ​●​ ​Increased food security for Singapore​

​Singapore imports more than 90 per cent of its food. Rice is a staple, and Thailand is one of the​
 ​world’s major rice exporters. By formalising cooperation and reducing the risk of export​
  ​restrictions, Singapore strengthens the reliability of its food supply. In an era of climate change,​
   ​wars and sudden export bans, this cooperation reduces vulnerability and price fluctuations for​
    ​consumers.​

   ​●​ ​Better management of ageing populations​

​Both countries face rapidly ageing societies. Collaboration in geriatrics and rehabilitation allows​
 ​Singapore to share its expertise as a good neighbour. Stronger regional healthcare systems also​
  ​create opportunities for medical partnerships and training, which are important for long-term​
   ​sustainability in both countries.​

   ​●​ ​Economic growth and investment flows​

​Singapore has been Thailand’s top foreign investor for two consecutive years. Strengthening​
 ​these ties supports cross-border investments in high-growth sectors such as semiconductors,​


                                                                                                     ​26​
​electric vehicles and data centres. This reinforces Singapore’s role as a regional business hub​
 ​while supporting Thailand’s industrial upgrading.​

   ​●​ ​Green and energy cooperation​

​Carbon credits are a way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, like carbon dioxide, that cause​
 ​climate change. Each carbon credit represents the right to emit one tonne of carbon dioxide (or​
  ​the equivalent greenhouse gas). Companies or countries that emit less than their allowed​
   ​amount of CO₂ can sell their extra credits to others that are exceeding their limits. This creates a​
    ​financial incentive to reduce emissions.​

​Agreements on carbon credits and regional power integration help Singapore and Thailand use​
 ​cleaner energy without slowing down their economies. As governments set stricter climate​
  ​targets and investors look for environmentally responsible businesses, these projects make sure​
   ​both countries can grow economically while reducing their impact on the environment.​

​Singapore to open embassy in Mexico​

​President Tharman Shanmugaratnam announced that Singapore will open an embassy in​
 ​Mexico City in 2026 during his first state visit to Mexico and Latin America in December 2025.​

​The Mexican mission will be Singapore’s first embassy in the Spanish-speaking world and​
 ​second in Latin America, after opening one in Brazil in 2012. Both Mr Tharman and Mexican​
  ​President Claudia Sheinbaum witnessed the signing of two MOUs at the National Palace located​
   ​in the Mexican capital.​

​The first agreement allows both countries to work together to help developing nations grow​
 ​their economies and improve living standards. They will support these efforts financially as well​
  ​as in skills and expertise.​

​The second agreement focuses on restoring coral reefs and promoting a sustainable blue​
 ​economy. This means using ocean resources to create jobs and economic growth, while also​
  ​protecting marine life and keeping the ocean healthy.​

​Ms Sheinbaum said that she received with enthusiasm the news of Singapore’s new resident​
 ​embassy in Mexico City. With that, Mexico will have 87 resident embassies, a reflection of​
  ​growing interest in the country, she said.​

​It is uncommon for Singapore to open new overseas missions – the most recent embassies​
 ​were established in Timor-Leste in 2024, Israel in 2022, and Oman in 2013. Prime Minister​


                                                                                                      ​27​
​Lawrence Wong had also announced in November 2025 a new embassy in Ethiopian capital​
 ​Addis Ababa by 2027.​

​An embassy is the country’s main diplomatic mission, typically located in the capital. Singapore​
 ​has several non-resident ambassadors who represent the Republic in countries with no resident​
  ​embassy. They are appointed by the Government, and have varied backgrounds including the​
   ​private sector and academia.​

​Mr Tharman also pointed out the similarities between both countries – Singapore and Mexico​
 ​are both open economies and each serve as gateways to broader regions: Mexico to North​
  ​America and the broader Americas; Singapore to South-east Asia and the wider Asia-Pacific.​

​He also explained that both countries’ economies fit well together. Singapore offers investment,​
 ​digital technology and strong logistics systems, which can help Mexico develop more high-value​
  ​industries. In return, Mexico provides large-scale manufacturing, skilled workers and close access​
   ​to the United States – one of the biggest consumer markets in the world.​

​Impact of the embassy​

    ​●​ ​Fosters stronger diplomatic ties while expanding Singapore’s global presence​

​An embassy is a country’s main official presence in another nation. By opening one in Mexico​
 ​C ity, Singapore shows it is serious about building long-term political and economic relationships​
  ​with Mexico and the wider Latin American region. This will be Singapore’s first embassy in the​
   ​Spanish-speaking world. That signals Singapore’s intention to strengthen connections in new​
    ​regions.​

    ​●​ ​Increase opportunities for economic cooperation​

​Mexico is a gateway to North America. Having an embassy helps to support Singapore​
 ​businesses operating in Mexico, attract Mexican investments to Singapore and facilitate trade​
  ​and partnerships. As both countries are open economies that serve as regional hubs, closer ties​
   ​can benefit both sides.​

​Sources: sfa.gov.sg, The Straits Times​




                                                                                                  ​28​
​Take in a bit of culture​
 ​with every bite​
​CHOO YING ERN and KAELYN FONG go around Singapore to find snacks from around​
 ​the region and talk to the people who make them and the people who eat them to find​
  ​out what role the snack has played in their lives.​




                                                  ​PHOTOS: CHOO YING ERN, KAELYN FONG, CANVA​




                                                                                         ​29​
​30​
​31​
​Check out a video tour and taste test of the snacks: https://str.sg/ihvo​




                                                                             ​32​
​Zooming in on landmarks​
​International Friendship Day celebrates the ties between the people of Singapore and​
 ​other countries. But, how well do people here really know their neighbours? IN hits the​
  ​streets to find out if people can identify prominent overseas landmarks.​




​Can you guess which of the landmarks mentioned in the video this is? PHOTO: CANVA​


​In the video, interviewees were shown magnified pictures of famous landmarks. They had to​
 ​guess which countries they are situated in. Watch the video here: https://str.sg/iShMX.​

​The answers are found on the next page.​




                                                                                              ​33​
​Could you guess all five? Here are the answers:​

    ​Gyeongbok Palace, South Korea:​​Located in Seoul, it​​is one of the five main palaces in the city.​
​Known as the largest and most beautiful of the palaces, it was first destroyed during the Imjin​
 ​War (1592 to 1598). After it was rebuilt, the majority of the palace was destroyed during the​
  ​Japanese colonial period of 1910 to 1945. The ongoing restoration, which begun in 1990, is​
   ​projected to be completed by 2030.​

​Petronas Twin Towers, Malaysia​: Located in Kuala Lumpur,​​the towers are the 12th tallest​
  ​building in the world, standing at 452m tall. Visitors can get a bird’s eye view of the city by going​
 ​up the towers’ observation deck on level 86.​

​Angkor Wat, Cambodia:​​Located in Krong Siem Reap,​​Angkor Wat is the world’s largest religious​
 ​monument. It took about 30 years to complete, and is the most well known monument of​
  ​Cambodia.​

​Valley of Colours, the Philippines:​​Located a few​​hours away from Baguio City, many tourists​
 ​visit the mountain village to view vibrantly coloured houses painted by local artists. The​
  ​development of the area was inspired by tourist attractions in South Korea and Brazil.​

  ​Billionth Barrel Monument, Brunei:​​Located in Seria,​​the monument commemorates the​
 ​billionth barrel of crude oil produced in Seria. It consists of six pillars forming an arch that​
​symbolises six decades of Brunei’s oil production.​

​Sources: Atlas Obscura, visitKOREA, Royal Palaces and Tombs Center, K-Royal Culture Festival Petronas Twin Towers,​
 ​Malaysia.Travel, NLB, Lost & Wonder, Hike to Mountains, Korea Heritage Service​




                                                                                                                       ​34​
​Quiz: Take the Philippines​
 ​challenge​
​The country of more than 7,000 islands is a culturally rich place with a deep history. In​
 ​2026, it will be leading ASEAN. Find out some interesting facts about it in this quiz by​
  ​CHOO YING ERN.​




 ​The bird shown here is the Philippine Eagle. Nicknamed King Bird, or Haring Ibon in Tagalog, due to its massive 2m wingspan, it is​
​the national bird of the Philippines. As there are only about 400 pairs left in the wild, it is considered critically endangered. PHOTO:​
  ​CANVA​




                                                                                                                                      ​35​
​1. Which of the following is NOT a Filipino dish?​




​2. More than 80 per cent of the people in the Philippines share the same religion. What is this​
 ​religion?​


 ​Roman-Catholicism​                                  ​Islam​

 ​Buddhism​                                           ​No religion​


​3. What are the two national language(s) of the Philippines?​


 ​Tagalog, English​                                   ​Filipino, Tagalog​

 ​Filipino, English​                                  ​Filipino, Cebuano​


​4. The traditional gong-chime ensemble of the Maguindanao people in the Southern Philippines​
 ​plays music used for celebratory occasions, such as festivals and weddings. What is this​
  ​ensemble called?​



                                                                                                ​36​
 ​Kulintang ensemble​                               ​Rondalla ensemble​

 ​Pangkat Kawayan​                                  ​Angklung ensemble​


​5. The San Augustin Church, which is the oldest church in the Philippines, has survived multiple​
 ​earthquakes and wars. What material was used to construct this church?​


 ​Concrete​                                         ​Wood​

 ​Stone​                                            ​Clay​


​6. The tinikling dance, regarded as the national dance of the Philippines, is a folk dance that​
 ​imitates the movement of the tikling bird. What does this dance use?​


 ​Bamboo poles​                                     ​A fan and handkerchief​

 ​Oil lamps​                                        ​Coconut shells​


​7. The salakot ("native hat") is a piece of the national costume of the Philippines. Which of the​
 ​following is NOT what it was traditionally used for?​


 ​Protection against sun and rain​                  ​Collateral for promises​

 ​Generational heirloom objects​                    ​Modesty reasons​


​8. The "bayanihan" spirit, which traditionally meant to physically move someone's house, is still a​
 ​core Filipino tradition today. In modern Philippines, what does this spirit involve?​


 ​Having integrity​                                 ​Communal unity and teamwork​

 ​Being open-minded to new ideas​                   ​Diligence and having focus​




  ​What does the Philippines intend to do as the 2026 ASEAN Chair?​
   ​The chair of ASEAN rotates every year, and it is the Philippines turn this 2026. Guided by​
    ​the theme “Navigating Our Future, Together,” the Philippines’ chairmanship is shaped by​
     ​three strategic priorities: peace and security anchors, prosperity corridors, and people​
      ​empowerment.​


                                                                                                      ​37​
   ​At the National Launch of the ASEAN Chairmanship 2026, President Ferdinand Marcos Jr​
    ​shared that Manila will prioritise economic cooperation and regional stability during its​
     ​chairmanship, while also seeking progress on long-running maritime issues.​

   ​For example, one such plan under their chairmanship is to champion the ethical and​
    ​responsible use of artificial intelligence (AI) to address security challenges in the region.​

   ​Mr Marcos at the launch said: “Let us build together an Asean that is unified in its diversity,​
    ​a steadfast body that stands close forever to its principles and bold in its embrace of​
     ​innovation.”​


​Answers​
 ​1. Kanom krok is a Thai delicacy, while the rest are Filipino dishes.​
  ​2. The majority of the population identify as Catholic. In addition to the Catholic majority, there are also minority Christian​
   ​groups and an active 4 per cent Muslim minority.​
    ​3. The national languages of the Philippines are Filipino and English. Filipino is actually a language derived mostly from​
     ​Tagalog!​
      ​4. The use of kulintang music is unique to the Maguindanao people. It is used for courtship ceremonies and in contests​
       ​between individual musicians or village ensembles.​
        ​5. The church was assigned as a UNESCO World Heritage site in 1994, and continues to be used for its original purpose as a​
         ​Catholic house of worship.​
          ​6. This folk dance requires two bamboo poles, as well as nimble footwork. The dance is said to imitate the movements of the​
           ​tikling bird, which agilely evades bamboo traps and navigates rice fields.​
            ​7. The headgear is not used for modesty reasons. In the past, salakot were made from the materials found in the wild,​
             ​including bamboo, palms, and rattan leaves.​
              ​8. Bayanihan is the spirit of teamwork, cooperation and camaraderie that inspires Filipinos to help one another, especially​
               ​those in need, without any expectations of material rewards.​




                                                                                                                                       ​38​
​Burn bridges or build them?​
​IN looks at ongoing developments of conflict and cooperation that are impacting global​
 ​relations.​




                                                                                    ​PHOTO: CANVA AI​



​Attack on Iran​

​The United States and Israel attacked Iran on Feb 28, targeting its top leaders and military​
 ​assets. US President Donald Trump said the move would end a security threat to the US and​
  ​give Iranians a chance to topple their rulers. However, the surprise move has plunged the​
   ​Middle East into an ever-widening conflict that is sending ripples of unrest throughout the​
    ​world.​

​What are the reasons for the strikes?​
 ​Mr Trump hopes the attacks would force Iran to give up its ambitions to obtain a nuclear​
  ​weapon. Negotiations on this matter had been ongoing, and in June 2025, the US had already​
   ​taken direct action by bombing Iran’s main nuclear sites.​

​Another goal was to force a change of the current government. On this, Mr Trump, in a video​
 ​message published on social media, said: “When we are finished, take over your government. It​
  ​will be yours to take. This will be probably your only chance for generations.”​
                                                                                                   ​39​
​In January 2026, citizens had mass demonstrated against the high cost of living in Iran. The​
 ​protests boiled over into a broader movement that challenged the Islamic republic’s clerical​
  ​leadership. It ended following a brutal government crackdown, carried out under an internet​
   ​blackout that left the country largely cut off from the outside world, in which thousands of​
    ​people were killed.​

​What’s next?​
 ​Just hours after the first attacks on Iran, all the Arab monarchies of the Gulf were dragged into​
  ​the conflict. Iran fired missiles and drones in retaliation at Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the​
   ​United Arab Emirates because they are friendly with the US.​

​Reports later confirmed that Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei as well as various​
 ​high-ranking officials, were killed in the Feb 28 air strikes.​

​There seems to be no early end in sight. Reciprocal attacks from Iran has led to the closure of​
 ​the region’s air spaces, disrupting air travel. There is also another flash point in Lebanon as Israel​
  ​responds to attacks from Iranian-backed militia based there while still conducting air raids on​
   ​military targets in Iran.​

​The lives of those living in the Middle East have been disrupted. Singaporean homemaker​
 ​Selena Ahmad Alkaff, who is based in the Qatari capital Doha, received a message at noon on​
  ​Feb 28 to stay home or find a safe place, just minutes before she heard explosions.​

​The mother of three said: “The impacts were above our buildings, among the clouds. So, at first,​
 ​we could only hear them, like distant fireworks.​

​“But as the hours passed, it got more and more intense. We could see each of the missiles​
 ​meant for the US military base being intercepted by at least two or three Qatari drones.”​
  ​Following the strikes, all schools have allowed home-based learning, and work-from-home​
   ​arrangements are in place indefinitely for nearly every office and company, according to Ms​
    ​Selena.​

​Many Singaporeans have since hurriedly left the region and returned home.​



​How are we affected?​
 ​Mr Trump on March 2 signalled that the US assault on Iran could go on for longer than a few​
  ​weeks. The US has hit more than 2,000 targets in Iran so far.​



                                                                                                      ​40​
​Delays are now expected at Singapore’s borders. The Immigration and Checkpoints Authority​
 ​said it has stepped up security checks on arriving travellers, cargo and conveyances at the land,​
  ​air and sea checkpoints.​

​People also have to brace themselves for a spike in petrol and electricity prices, and overall​
 ​inflation in Singapore if the conflict extends beyond a week or two.​

​Mr Jorge Leon of Rystad Energy said: “The most immediate and tangible development affecting​
 ​oil markets is the effective halt of traffic through the Strait of Hormuz.” He was referring to the​
  ​Iranian-controlled waterway that connects the Gulf to the Indian Ocean. Ships that carry 15​
   ​million barrels of crude oil and 290 million cubic metres of LNG per day use it to travel from the​
    ​Middle East to mainly Asia and Europe.​

​Speaking in Parliament on March 2, Deputy Prime Minister Gan said geopolitical conflicts will​
 ​significantly impact a small and open economy like Singapore.​

​DPM Gan, who is also Minister for Trade and Industry, said of the closure of the Strait of Hormuz:​
 ​“In the near term, this could result in an increase in global energy prices.​

​“Depending on how protracted the conflict is, higher energy prices could lead to higher costs for​
 ​businesses and consumers, and weigh on the global and Singapore economies.”​



​Middle powers seek new paths​

​India and the European Union have agreed on a long-awaited free trade agreement (FTA)​
 ​dubbed the “mother of all deals”, and signed pacts on defence and worker mobility.​

​The FTA and the security pact are part of a key strategic pivot for the middle powers looking to​
 ​navigate a rapidly evolving geopolitical landscape by diversifying their economic reliance on​
  ​China and the United States, and strengthening strategic ties.​

​The alliance was influenced by the recent actions of the United States. The Europeans’​
 ​relationships with their main ally had been affected by US President Donald Trump’s disregard​
  ​of diplomatic norms in his recent attempt to own Greenland. As for India, it was driven to find​
   ​new markets because of uncertain trade talks with the Trump administration.​

​The FTA spells hope for Indian exporters, including those in areas like gems and jewellery and​
 ​textiles, who have been hit hardest among all countries by a 50 per cent tariff from the US, and​
  ​could benefit from greater access to the European market.​


                                                                                                    ​41​
​Trading of goods between India and the EU stood at US$136 billion (S$172.1 billion) in the​
 ​2024-2025 financial year, according to data from the Indian Ministry of Commerce and​
  ​Industry. European Commission data puts India as the EU’s ninth-largest trading partner in​
   ​2024.​

​For the EU, closer ties with India will open access to a large consumer market and strengthen its​
 ​strategic footprint in Asia.​

​A mobility agreement was also struck, which European Commission president Ursula von der​
 ​Leyen said would make it easier for Indian students, researchers and seasonal and highly skilled​
  ​workers to go to Europe. She also announced the creation of a European Legal Gateway Office​
   ​to aid worker mobility.​

​The Straits Times​




                                                                                                 ​42​
